1. A class can be described as what?
    - a template of an object(s)
         - a class is like an empty form that gets copied and handed out. after its copied/filled out, the action of that is the object creation. each object is unqiue as it contains
           different information using the class (form) as a template
    - a custom data type
        because you can create variables in the class.
               this is done via static or non-static. on the class level, static must be used.
               for static fields, stored in one place in memory. value is accessed by classname.fieldname
               instance field, not stored in memory. not created until object is created. accessed via object.fieldname
               think of static like data on a form that doesn't change no matter how many times its copied.

    - a special code block that contains variables and methods


2. Object
    instance/copy of a particular class

3. how to create an object from a class?
    by using new keyword


4. What is inheritance?
   parent-child hierarchy which let the child inherit or reuse fields and methods of its parent
   e.g.,
   Animal   - base class
         Verterbrates     -sub classes
               WarmBlooded
                   Mammal
                      Dog
                      Cat
                   Bird
               ColdBlooded
                   Fish
                      Salmon
                      GoldFish
                   Reptiles

   * use class diagrams to design classes before building them

   The below attributes and behaviors can apply to all animal types so we define them in the base class, Animal
   Animal
   attributes:
        type String
        size String
        weight double
   behavior:
        move
        make noise


what does extends keyword do?
   specifies the superclass/parent class of the class we are declaring

 what does super keyword do?
    used to call constructor on the parent/super class
    java will implicitely do this if there is a default constructor in the super/parent class
    if there is NO default constructor, then you must explicitely call super() in all your constructors passing the right args

note: all subclasses can execute methods even if its declared on the parent class


What is overriding? a.k.a runtime polymorphism or Dynamic method dispatch
   Overriding is when you create a method in the subclass  which has the same signature as the method in the superclass.
   why do this? if you want the childsub class to have different behavior in the method then its parent
   @Override annotation recommended, helps compiler flag override errors if your not properly overriding a method

   3 main uses of overriding a method:
     1. completely implement diff behavior from what its parent method does
     2. simply call super class method, which is redundant because it does that anyway
     3. call parent method AND add additional behavior specific to the sub-class, a.k.a extending functionality

     rules:
       same name, same args
       return type can be a subclass of the return type in the parent class
       canont have a lower access modifier
       

Overloading
   same method names, different args being passed.
      reduces code duplication and allows use of same method name.
      also called compile time polymorphism
      can be done in single or sub-classes
      may or may not have different return types
      may or may not have different access modifiers
      may or may not have different checked/unchecked exceptions

  what is polymorphism:
     - many forms
     - concept of being able to execute different behavior, for different types, which are determined by runtmie
     - allowed you to write generic code based on base class , or a parent class.

  what is composition
    - prereq be familiar with inheritance - a.k.a extends

    - inheritance defines an IS A relationship, (e.g., a computer is a type of product)
    - composition defines a HAS A relationship  (a personal computer HAS a motherboard, monitor, keyboard)
    it models parts and those parts make up a whole
    - a way to make he combination of classes, act like a single cohorent object

     - when designing, look at composition before inheritance
     composition is more flexible. you can add parts in, remove them, and the changes will less likely have a downstream effect

     composition provides functional reuse outside of the class hierarchy, meaning classes can share attributes & behavior
     by having similar components instead of inheriting from  parent or base class

    inheritance breaks encapsulation because subclasses may need direct access to a parent's state or behavior
    - inheritance is less flexible
    add/remove a class from a hierarchy can impact all subclasses
    - a new subclass may need functionality/attributes of the parent

  what is encapsulation
      hiding things or making them inaccessible
      why?
         - to make interface simpler, hide unnecessary details
         - to protect the integrity of data on an object, we hide or restrict access to some data and operations
         - to deoucple the published interface from the internal details of the class, hide names and types of class members
              published interface is the class members exposed to or can be accessed by calling code
              API is the public contract that tells us how to use the class

        issues when encapsulation is not used;
          problem: allowing direct access to data on an object, can potentially bypass checks, and additional processing,
          your class has in place to manage the data

          problem2: allowing access to fields , means calling code would need to change , when you edit any of the fields

          problem3: ommitting a constructor that would accept initalization data, may mean the calling code is responsible for setting up data on the object

          encourages inter-dependency, or coupling between calling code and the class

          Principles of creating an encapsulated class
             - create constructors for object init, which enforces that only objects with valid data will get created
             - use the private access modifier for your fields
             - use setter and getter methods sparingly, only as needed
             - use access modifiers that aren't private , only for methods that the calling code needs to use.



  what do all classes in java inherit from?
     they inherit from a single built-in java class called Object. its contained in the java.lang pacakge

difference between this and super
   super: used to call parent's class members or methods
       commonly used in method overriding when calling a method with the same name within the subclass
       super() calls a constructor from a parent class
       this gets called by java compiler by default if not specified.
   this: used to call currnet class members or methods. required when we have the same name as a parameter in the instance field
   cannot use neither on static elements. compile error will be shown
        this() calls another constructor from another overloaded constructor in the same class


what is text-block?
  released in jdk15, special format for multi-line literals


  Escape sequences
  \t insert a tab
  \n insert a new line character
  \" insert a double quote character
  \\ insert a backslash

  Format specifiers when using printf
  %[argument_index$][flags][width][.precision]conversion

  %d for decimal integer value

  what is var?
  keyword that deals with Local Variable Type Inference (java 10)- helps reduce boilerplate code
  using it makes java figure out compile time type for us.
     -cannot be used in field declarations on a class
     -cannot bs used in method signatures either as parameter type or return type
     -cannot be used w/o an assignment
     -cannot be null literal

    Differnce between compile time typing vs runtime typing?
      compile type is the declared type, declared mostly on left side of operator
      LVTI we don;t declare type, it gets inferred

      runtime type = determined on runtime, on the right side of operator

  what is instanceof keyword? lets you test type of an object or instance
  e.g., obj instanceof Class

what is pattern matching. regex

what is a package? folder/dir that organizes set of related types
   - organize classes by functionality, or in relationships

   FQCN: Fully qualified class name: consist of the package name and class name

   * cannot import types from the default package into other classes outside of default package



