1. What is true about expressions in java?
    an expression computes a single value

2. What about statements?
     statements are standalone units of work
     they can contain multiple expressions

3. What are code blocks used for?
    they are 0+ statements grouped together to achieve a goal

4. what are the exceptions not making a line of code a statement?

5. Why is whitespace used? for readability purposes. having extra spaces veritcally or horizontally around source code
    is used to make code readable

6. What is a great way to avoid code duplication?
  methods- use it to write code once and reuse it anywhere in the program
  java def: a method declares executable code that can be invoked , passing a fixed number of values as arguments

7. Technically, what is the difference between a parameter and an argument?
   Although used interchangably, parameter is the definition shown in the method declaration while the arugment
   is the value that is passed to the method.

8. When is a return keyword used?
   it is used to return a value from a method via the return keyword. make sure to remove the void keyword in the method declaration
   and provide the method data type it will be returning

9. A method can be a statement or an expression T/F
    True
10. Bonus: in some languages, how are methods/functions/procedures defined?
     method/functions that return a value
     procedures: don't return a value (void)

11. What decalarations should occur when creating a method
    - access modifier (public private, default, etc)
    - return type (void or data type or class)
    - declaring method name
    - declaring method parameters (if any)
    - declaring method block/body using {}

 12. can a return statement be used if method has declares void in the keyword?
    YES, it can be used to terminate execution of the method due to some condition

 13. does java support default values in methods? Nope, but C# does :)

 14. what is the method the JVM looks for at the beginning of each execution?
      main
